Editorial Palindromes Coloring (#4915)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/bronze/cf-1624D.mdx

---
id: cf-1624D
source: CF
title: Palindromes Coloring
author: Rameez Parwez
---

> [Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/98942)

Reviewer: add language

Author: done

## Explanation

We can greedily solve this problem by first forming palindromic pairs from identical characters.
We add one pair each of the `k` palindromes we want to build, as long as we have `k` pairs available.

> Once we are done adding pairs, we can still add one more character to the middle of each palindrome if there are atleast `k` individual characters remaining.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we are done adding pairs, we can still add one more character to the middle of each palindrome if there are at least `k` individual characters remaining.
```

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

int main() {
	int test_num;
	std::cin >> test_num;
	while (test_num--) {

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

		int n, k;
		std::string st;
		std::array<int, 26> cnt{0};
		std::cin >> n >> k >> st;

		for (char x : st) { cnt[x - 'a']++; }

		int num_pairs = 0, num_odd = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
			num_pairs += cnt[i] / 2;
			num_odd += (cnt[i] % 2 == 1);
		}

		int res = 2 * (num_pairs / k);
		num_odd += 2 * (num_pairs % k);
		res += (num_odd >= k);

> 		cout << res << '\n';

Reviewer: didn't you remove std::cout?

Author: my bad.

---
id: cf-1624D
source: CF
title: Palindromes Coloring

> author: Sōsuke

Author: This will be the first and last time. 
Just consider one exception.

---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/98942)

## Explanation

We can greedily solve this problem by first forming palindromic pairs from identical characters.
We add one pair each of the `k` palindromes we want to build, as long as we have `k` pairs available.
Once we are done adding pairs, we can still add one more character to the middle of each palindrome if there are atleast `k` individual characters remaining.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

> using std::cout;

Reviewer 2: just curious but why only have `using std::cout`? idk doesnt matter that much but seems a bit odd to me

Author: sans way of writing.

changed it.

int main() {
	int test_num;
	std::cin >> test_num;
	while (test_num--) {

		int n, k;
		std::string st;
		std::array<int, 26> cnt{0};
		std::cin >> n >> k >> st;

		for (char x : st) { cnt[x - 'a']++; }

> 		int pairs_cnt = 0, odd_cnt = 0;

Reviewer 2: inb4 sans tells you to change it to `num_pairs` and `num_odd`

Reviewer 3: real

Author: done
